# FIP 2021-002-03: Classes

**Authors** Ivan Ogasawara <ivan.ogasawara at gmail.com>

<!--
Status [Draft | Accepted | Final | Deferred | Rejected | Withdrawn | Superseded | Active]
-->
**Status** Draft

<!--
Type: [Standards Track | Informational | Process]
-->
**Type** Informational

**Created** 2021-02-23

<!--
resolution: url to discussion (required for Accepted | Rejected | Withdrawn)
-->
**Resolution**


## Abstract

This document propose, in high level, the `import` and `import from` statements.

## Motivation

...

## Proposal

**Key points:**

* General Definition
* Rules

**Conventions**

No specific conventions applies for this proposal.


### General Definition

The `import` statement allows to reuse `public` objects defined in other resources. A valid object in the importing context are all kind of public (named) objects that can be imported, such as `variables`, `functions`,
`classes`, `modules` and `libraries`/`packages`.

#### Rules

The `import` statement should be used preferencially in the initial of the file.

It can be combined with `from` to import some valid object from inside `package` or `module`. For example: `import from fenix: os`

One or more objects can be imported using the `import from` statement,
separated by comma. For example: `import from pkg1: mod1, mod2, mod3`.

The object imported can be renamed using the keyword `as`, that will affect only in the current scope. For example: `import pkg1 as mypkg1` or `import from pkg1: mod1 as mymod1, mod2 as mymod2`.

Built-in valid objects should be imported explicitly from
`fenix`. For example, `import from fenix: os`.

Relative `imports` are not allowed. Instead it should be imported using the library/package name.

To organize the import statements considerer the following rules:

- `import` and `import from` statements for `built-in` objects should be defined first in alphabetic order.
- `import` and `import from` should be ordered/sorted alphabetically by the name of the package. For the same package, `import` should be defined before `import from` statements.
- Inside the `import from` statetment all items should be sorted alphabetically by original name of the object.
- The compiler should raise a warning if any of these rules doesn't match.


### Examples

```fenix
import from fenix.io: func1
import from fenix.io.socket: socket_method1

import package_a
import package_a.lib_u
import package_a.lib_v
import from package_a: lib_a.module_b as mod_b

import from package_b: (
  lib_a,
  lib_b,
  lib_c,
  lib_d,
  lib_e2 as lib_e
)

import package100 as pkg100

import pkg1
import from pkg1: (
  lib_a.asdf.asdf as a,
  lib_b as b,
  lib_c as c,
  lib_d as d,
  lib_e2 as lib_e
)

```


## Copyright

This document has been placed in the public domain.


## References


## Changelog
